all right crystal what's on your radar
Wow now that the primary is over the
media has actually noticed that Joe
Biden might have a few electability
weaknesses that he needs to shore up
funny how no one pointed out that it
might be tough to win a general with a
candidate who's at zero in enthusiasm
with voters under 45 until of course
Bernie Sanders have been safely removed
as a threat or how maybe just maybe
having passionate and enthusiastic
supporters could be an actual electoral
advantage come November rather than a
terrible bad sign of a toxic campaign
and make no mistake about it Joe's
deficit with young voters is a massive
problem currently according to the
latest Quinnipiac poll while Trump is
doing worse on net favorability with
young voters at minus 24 he actually has
a higher percentage of young voters that
rate him favorably 33 percent of young
voters have a favorable opinion of
Donald Trump while only 30 percent have
a favorable opinion of Joe let me say
that again less than a third of voters
under 34 have a positive opinion of
democratic for a runner Joe Biden that
is an absolute catastrophe for Joe and
for the Democratic Party
that's so proud of being the party of
young people and make no mistake about
it the sneering contempt that all of
those people had for the Sanders
movement will come back to haunt them
not only in this election cycle but in
the future as they try to build a
durable majority that depends very
heavily on the votes of the young
remember that vaunted Obama coalition it
was famously heavily dependent on young
voters but now of course Joe swears
things between him and the Bernie base
are gonna be different and the letter he
published after Bernie sex it became
official he wrote to Bernie supporters I
see you I hear you and I understand the
urgency of what it is we have to get
done in this country and if his vague
reassurances didn't win you over well
Joe's got an exciting new plan to lower
the Medicare eligibility age from 65 all
the way down to 60 as Jeffery Steiner
Fuhrer wopo pointed out before he
deleted his tweet this would cover only
a fraction of the 30 million Americans
without health insurance more than 25
Democratic senators including moderates
already support dropping Medicare to 55
you're doing just
with that outreach Joe keep it up
perhaps at this pace you can get to the
left of that firebrand amy klobuchar by
the time of the virtual convention look
I absolutely applaud all the groups that
are pushing to get meaningful
commitments from Joe like no corporate
or Wall Street appointments and key
positions well let's be real Joe Biden's
not gonna change he's been in Washington
for nearly 50 years 50 years he is who
he is if you think he's gonna shift
course at nearly 80 years old then I've
got a lying dog face pony soldier to
sell you and so let's talk about who Joe
Biden really is in a weird way he
actually bears some similarities to
Donald Trump
not on the surface level of course their
style in their affect is clearly quite
different but both have basically
adopted a rhetorical style to appeal to
the working class while in actual
reality selling them out
vines been known in Washington
simultaneously as two completely
contradictory things middle-class joe
and the senator from MBNA a reference of
course to the massive credit card issuer
based in delaware for whom hunter
lobbied by the way Joe plays the other
man very well though talking about his
Scranton roots knows how to handle
himself in a union hall plain-spoken and
with a whole repertoire of homespun
stories about the Biden values his dad
imparted to him it's unusual and
impressive frankly that after 50 years
in Washington he still got the feel for
it
still maintained the brand of course we
all know it the reality of what his
worldview has meant for the working
class during the course of his tenure in
the minority and in the majority as he
climbed the ranks earning more and more
power and finally ascended to the vice
presidency of the United States he
oversaw the declining fortunes of the
American middle-class he watched as
their wages stagnated and their unions
withered he helped usher in the trade
deals that sent their jobs overseas he
spearheaded the crime bill that
disproportionately sent their sons to
prison and backed the worse that
disproportionately sent their children
overseas to die alongside Obama although
they promised hope and change they
stocked up on Wall Street friendly types
former clintonites so that instead of
changed we just got a new look on the
same old approach now that's to say
nothing of the way his family members
personally enrich themselves with plumb
gags board seats an influence peddling
tell you what the results of those last
50 years were for working-class
Americans and obviously I don't lay it
all at the feet of Joe Biden no he had
many partners in forging this reality
but never did he step out of line and
occasionally did he actually lead the
charge Trump is a different flavor of
fake working-class hero but that's
precisely what he is I've written before
about how it's outside of capturing the
anger of those who had watched their
community's crumble and there's
stability along with it he also tapped
into their accurate perception that much
of this town in the national media and
the leadership of both parties frankly
sneered at them held them in contempt
judge what they ate and where they lived
and even the words that they used as the
kid from Queens with the gaudy taste
Trump really shared that sense of
grievance here he was famous billionaire
it's still just a tacky joke when it
came to the fancy folks in Manhattan and
in the Hamptons
of course as president he staffed up
with a bunch of typical Wall Street
types just like Biden well Gary Cohen
and Steve minuchin could easily serve
under a Biden administration many of the
people contemplated in Tom Friedman's
silly unity cabinet piece could easily
serve under Trump the bipartisan
corporate consensus folks you just love
to see it and so that's the very sad
depressing terrible choice we're now
faced with two people who can't be
bothered to give workers anything more
than some rhetorical signaling an
occasional palliative-care Biden wants
to lower the Medicare age a few years
Wow Trump moderately improved NAFTA
incredible the righteous fires that
burned after the 2008 financial collapse
have somehow dimmed into these fake
populace who can't help themselves from
throwing cash a big business and
promising that nothing will
fundamentally change but while Joe Biden
might not be changing the world is and I
can promise you this people are not
going to settle for working-class
branding exercise soccer it really hit
me that pull that Quinnipiac poll that
showed the favorability ratings of Trump
and of Biden with voters under 34 and
there is you know Trump gets 30%
basically Joe gets 30% and you have
another third that's like I don't none
of the above I don't like any of these
choices and what does that mean
for the future of the Democratic Party
for the future of America when you have
such a large chunk of young voters who
are like none of this is for me none of
it it's in its what it leads to a
cynicism that's really what it is and
look you know I have long criticized the
Trump administration um from background
of saying that they didn't do enough of
what they said they were going to do and
I think the the real thing is it's gonna
come down to cynical and political
calculation which is actually a terrible
place to be yeah because what it comes
down to is you're like wow you know
somebody will do about 25 percent of
what I want compared to zero percent of
what I want right then you have to do
this like weird value judgment shuffling
around and unfortunately that is the way
that it has had to work in kind of the
neoliberal era but it didn't always work
that way if you look at the way that
politics was the aspirational nature of
not just how people used to campaign but
how people used to govern and we used to
do big things we used to have big
programs used to do great things across
the world and for ourselves and a lot of
that was lost in the last 40 years I
think that is what leads to a real
malaise amongst the general population
because what's happening with the young
is actually what's happened to the
largest group of voters in this country
which is non voters which is that right
now as Chris our natis book and what he
talks about this is that the largest
group that we have are people who don't
vote because I have absolutely no faith
in the political system these are
disproportionately people who are lower
middle class or lower class yeah don't
make any money who view any connection
to the government as a hassle and of
itself forms all these other things are
just tools in order to keep them where
they are and so they just have no faith
in the system and unfortunately I think
for people who are under 35 like myself
a lot of it just comes down to you
become a very cynical person whenever
you look at politics and you have to
reach back very far in our history to
actually see where some hope really lies
for a transformative future because in
your living memory it doesn't exist well
it does exist it existed in the form of
the Bernie Sanders campaign I mean for
young people overwhelmingly that was
that was the person who actually gave
them some hope that their priorities and
interest could be represented in
which is why it's such a tough time
right now because they're looking around
and going I don't know who the next
logical successor is I don't know what
the next thing is that could actually
give me hope in participating in the
electoral system and you have no choice
like there is no other choice but you
have to participate in the system if you
want to make it better and so I think a
lot of people are struggling to see what
that next right move is which is what
makes it so tough but you know those
numbers that we're seeing that level of
sort of disgust that's even before we
really have the full fallout from what
we're living through right now I mean
that's numbers that reflect an economy
that was you know it was doing great for
the the very wealthy and it was doing
okay
you know wages were going up a tiny bit
unemployment was low at least official
unemployment so it was those are numbers
that reflect a you know relatively good
time what is that going to look like
especially for people who are just
coming a voting age now or in college
right now her graduating right now into
thirty percent unemployment in their
whole life trajectory being thrown off
course by what is happening and the
failure to respond to it in Washington
DC right now I don't think we know what
that looks like I don't think we know
what that kind of dissatisfaction and
disaffection looks like we have the
Occupy Wall Street model we have all
these activist movements that have
cropped up but I think this is going to
be something like we've never seen
before the Democratic Party thinks they
can take young voters for granted
because they think that they don't have
another choice and democratic young
voters do tend to be progressive on most
issues I mean it is a very it is the
most progressive generation but they
don't identify with the Democratic Party
they don't have that reflexive
Democratic Party like I'm just gonna go
and vote blue and they don't listen to
the legacy media they're not you know
they're not getting fed their daily dose
of propaganda from CNN MSNBC etcetera
this is the future of politics and as
I've always said and actually you're
right young people are progressive on
economic issues cultural issues is
actually basically split so you know I
mean you say in terms of the Bernie Kim
Sanders game they don't know about that
I've notes I mean on immigration
everybody's basically split not on
things like gay marriage
no.not things like drug legalization
like Trump is so I mean saying if you
look at this in terms of the future of
politics and the fault lines I wouldn't
say that it was embodied in the Sanders
campaign and at the same time he failed
twice so this is somebody who failed to
challenge in order to fight against that
political establishment two times so it
only feeds the cynicism of what I'm
talking about and in terms of what
you're saying yeah it's gonna be a
lagging indicator and the lagging
indicator was Occupy Wall Street took
three years ultimately to materialize
because the fallout because people still
have hope people will be like oh they're
coming for me they're coming for me and
they're great me it takes a long time to
realize that that's actually not going
to happen so that's where I've said I
mean we called this from the very
beginning which is that it's gonna take
three years people won't even know what
hit them in the face because anger
bubbles and bubbles and bubbles and it
ultimately comes to the point of a real
reckoning in our politics we make Trump
and Bernie look like you know pretty
circuses compared to what is the car I
know exists eree and you know what is
coming well people don't care also right
now people are just trying to get
through the day they're trying to live
and deal with the crisis I mean you're
just like so inundated and that was the
the timeline for Occupy Wall Street it
was a little bit of a lag as you said
after you've had a chance to pick your
head up and look around and go my god
like they transform in America in
exactly the wrong direction and I'm not
here I'm not just gonna sit here and
stand it right I'm gonna get out there
I'm gonna do what I can to change this
course and make my voice heard and so
that yeah I think that is gonna be small
it's gonna be a blip on the radar
compared to what could be coming to I
think this first
alright sauger looking forward your
radar that's nice